---
title: Sensitivity analysis in practice, chapter 3 notes
---

## Admin

* meet late afternoon at vis
* meeting not necessarily on tuesday
* nov 25 - resume schedule

## proper distribution for birth days

* is it gaussian or beta?
* website gives a gaussian distribution

## CCC workshop on uncertainty recap

* soon there will be a report
* attendees:
    * simulation science
    * ML/data science
    * meterorology/climatology
    * decision making community
* panels had distributions of people from communities
* meteorology people - in EU how to communicate models to the public?
* decision sciences
    - how do people make decisions
    - split uncertainty into quantifiable(risk, more certain)
      and non-quantifiable
* ML/data science - algorithms are not keeping up with increase in data
* __grand challenge__ - how to piece all the simulation components together
  and do a holistic analysis?
* building models without data...
* concerns about data being used outside its original context and not all
  issues with the data are clearly communicated
* 40 people and 2-3 people per "group/area"
* will children be more in tuned with uncertainty of predictions?
* what role does education and media play?

### Vis perspective

* visualization as a QA/providence process
* data analysis, we try to understand the data
* now: we do UQ in the presence of incompleteness

### Outcomes

* simulation/UQ area is probably the farthest one along
* "uncertainity quantification" is not a great name b/c uncertainty has
  different meanings w/ different people
* climate guy
    - "I don't think about UQ at all"
    - climate models are not close enough to physics to do UQ on
    - he does not trust his model well enough
    - given additional computing power they'd do additional physics

## Chapter 3

### Quote from pg 70

> Uncertainty analysis quantifies the potential loss incurred by the
> bank and, in particular, the maximum potential loss, a variable that
> is often of interest in this context. Sensitivity analysis identifies
> the relative importance of the sources of the incurred risk

* inconsistency of usage of terms risk vs SA, uncertainty btw communities
* risk/loss make sense for property and finance but not so
  much for weather people
* fisheries people in BC wanted a risk framework
    * pushed by fisheries guy
    * risk is the consequence of a wrong decision
    * similar to decision making people
* risk is often used in terms of gain and loss
    * lives or property damage
    * sustainability
    * probability of failure
    * reputation
* engineers want feasibility of design

### stages of modelling questions:

* engineers: model view
* decision maker: translate into world

1. building the model
2. using the model to design something
3. applying the model for policy

### Uncertainty vs SA

* uncertainty exists without input/output
* sensitivity exists only with input/output relationship
* uncertainty can be defined on either input or output and SA connects these
* Saltelli's definition of uncertainty is also called "parameter uncertainty"
* SA can be also called "forward problem uncertainty"
* Saltelli's definition assumes some sort of model
    * what if you don't trust the model?
* uncertainty is something you can do on data
* SA requires a model

## Parameter space analysis vs SA vs UQ

* is PSA the same as UQ or SA?
* all Saltelli's examples live on probabilities, what are the alternatives?

## Future things to discuss

* want to discuss is parameter space analysis the same as uncertainty?
    * parameter space exploration assumes no uncertainty?
    * SA is linking parameter space analysis with UQ?
* find counterpoint to Saltelli?
    - build a collection of views
* extract keywords from papers?
* data and models
