---
title:  Chapter 1 of Cacuci book
---

## More on SA vs UQ

* lump SA and UQ together often
* there's still global and local but also deterministic and stochastic
* sensitivity is the terminology in meteorology to refer to adjoint modelling
* if we list the subtasks of SA and UQ (e.g. screening) can we then classify them into SA or UQ?
* Is UQ the catch-all term for when we don't have a clear task to understand the model?
* UQ doesn't consider themselves model builders
* the mathematical techniques are very similar but the mental model/question is very different
    - SA = what do parameters of the model mean?  assume model is fixed
    - UQ = how to design under uncertainty?  what are consequences of designs given the uncertainty?
* UQ started w/ materials science where manufacturing tolerances of materials given deterministic models were drastically different from reality (e.g. ceramics)
* run a numerical fluid simulation using experimental input variability and look at error curves of response of model vs experimental response
* maybe it's better to come up with the task landscape of model analysis and set aside what's SA or UQ for later?
* general task: how sensitive is my model?
    - initial conditions
    - input params
    - boundary conditions
    - model components
    - etc
* UQ community may see themselves as a field, not mathematical techniques

## Cacuci book

* is there a pipeline to SA and UQ?
    - deterministic systems start with SA and then UQ
    - stochastic systems go the other way
* UQ community may see the statement: "stochastic models cannot have exactly stated sensitivies"
    - Wiener showed that you can express the solution to a system of PDEs with stochastic variables

## SA vs UQ

* UQ has terms for data uncertainty and model uncertainty
* SA, if you have a model, you need both input and output params and the relationship thereof
* data uncertainty - you can characterize the variability of the data outside of any model

## Where to go from here?

* tasks for characterizing 2 datasets A&B
* how to characterize the relationship btwn A&B?
* local sensitivity assumes a specific input so there's no uncertainty
* global SA doesn't always assume parameter sensitivity
* data characterization vs model
* uncertain inputs vs understanding, e.g. how to reduce the model complexity to only its core features
