---
title: An open letter to Donald Trump
date: 2017-02-03 16:32 CET
tags: politics
---

Dear Mr. Trump,

I am writing to you in hopes that this will generate some momentum to force you
to step down as president.  I actually considered voting for you at one point
during your campaign. Your promise to clean out the Washington establishment
resonated with me. I am no fan of the lobbying/re-election driven people in the
government. In my opinion, the government should support the people and not be
influenced by corporations.  Without this separation what is to stop companies
from exploiting the citizens?

However, the more I thought about you as a person I realized you would be a
terrible president. You've flaunted the laws for your own personal gain as you
have done with bankruptcy law. You seemed to only act to better yourself at the
expense of anyone who invested with you. Nevertheless, when you were elected I
held on to a glimmer of hope that you would indeed change the government for
the better.

Rather than remove the lobbyists and reduce corporate influence in Washington,
you have enhanced it. Through your actions you have tied your business
interests to the government. You have stepped over the middlemen lobbyists and
directly hired other buisiness leaders. You have refused to fully divest
yourself from your business interests.  Rather than stepping down fully, you've
given control to your son-in-law. I assume this was the legal miniumum required
to become president. By not releasing your tax returns, it will be more
difficult to expose you for the fraud you are.

You are the leader of one of the greatest, most powerful countries in the
world. You have the power to do so much good in the world. You have the power
to push policies to have safe health care, end wars, or protect the Earth.
Instead, you are squandering this opportunity and making you and your friends
slightly richer. You have shamed what it means to be an American citizen. I am
ashamed now to call myself an American and you should be too.

Sincerely,
Thomas Torsney-Weir

